# Mathematical Programming

<https://encyclopediaofmath.org/wiki/Mathematical_programming>

***

The branch of mathematics concerned with the theory and methods 
for solving problems on finding the extrema of functions on sets 
defined by linear and non-linear constraints (equalities and 
inequalities) in a finite-dimensional vector space. Mathematical 
programming is a branch of operations research, which comprises a 
wide class of control problems the mathematical models of which 
are finite-dimensional extremum problems. The problems of 
mathematical programming find applications in various areas of 
human activity where it is necessary to choose one of the possible 
ways of action, e.g. in solving numerous problems of control and 
planning of production processes as well as in problems of design 
and long-term planning. The term "mathematical programming" is 
connected with the fact that the goal of solving various problems 
is choosing programs of action.

The mathematical formulation of the problem of mathematical 
programming is: To minimize a scalar function $\phi (x)$ of a 
vector argument on the set

$$
X = \lbrace x : q_i (x) \geq 0, i=0, \dots ,k; h_j(x) = 0, j=0, \dots, m  \rbrace,  \cdots\cdots(1)
$$

where $q_i(x)$ and $h_j(x)$ are scalar functions. The function
$ \phi (x)$ is called the objective function, and also the quality
criterion, the set $X$ is called the feasible set, or the set of 
plans, a solution $x^*$ of the mathematical programming problem 
is an optimum point (or vector), a point of global minimum and 
also an optimal plan.



